Aim:
	To understand and practice the basic linux commands.
  
Commands: 
pwd – Present Working Directory
ls – List
i	-	left of cursor
I 	-	Beginning of the line
a 	-	append text to the right of the cursor 
A 	-	append text to the end of the line
o	-	open the line below
O	-	open the line above
S	-	Replace single character
R	-	replace from the cursor to right
cd – Change Directory
mkdir- Create a folder or a directory
rmdir – remove a directory
rm – r  ->  It removes both  the files and folders available in the directory
touch – used to create a file
man / help– to know more about the command and how to use it
cp – copy files through the command line. It takes two arguments: The first is the location 
of the file to be copied, the second is where to copy.
mv —to move files through the command line.
locate — The locate command is used to locate a file in a Linux system, just like the search 
command in Windows. 
echo — The "echo" command helps us move some data, usually text into a file. For example, if 
you want to create a new text file or add to an already made text file, you just need to type 
in, “echo hello, my name is alok >> new.txt”
cat — Use the cat command to display the contents of a file.
sudo — A widely used command in the Linux command line, sudo stands for "SuperUser Do". So, 
if you want any command to be done with administrative or root privileges, you can use the 
sudo command. 
df — Use the df command to see the available disk space in each of the partitions in your system.
du — Use du to know the disk usage of a file in your system.
tar — Use tar to work with tarballs (or files compressed in a tarball archive) in the 
Linux command line.
uname — Use uname to show the information about the system your Linux distro is running. 
Using the command “uname -a” prints most of the information about the system. 
uname  –a	-	behaves as through all of the option
uname  –v	-	Print Operating System version
uname  –m	-	Print Machine hardware name
uname  –n	-	Print node name
uname  –p	-	Print Machine Processor Architecture name
uname  –r	-	print opearating system release
uname  –s	-	print operating system name

apt-get — Use apt to work with packages in the Linux command line. Use apt-get to install 
packages. This requires root privileges, so use the sudo command with it.
chmod — Use chmod to make a file executable and to change the permissions granted to 
it in Linux. 
hostname — Use hostname to know your name in your host or network. Basically, it displays 
your hostname and IP address. 
ping — Use ping to check your connection to a server. 
Saving and exit (In Editor):
:w	-	save a file
:wq	-	Save and quit editing mode
:q	-	Quit editing when no changes are done

Result:
	Thus, the basic linux commands have been practiced successfully.
